docs: describe session validation (#7548)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/guides/integrate/login-ui/session-validation.mdx

---
title: How to Handle Session Validation
sidebar_label: Session Validation
---

Sessions represent the state of a user session in ZITADEL. They can be aggregated and updated over time to reflect
the changes.

For example, a session could be started by checking a username and ZITADEL will return a new session
with some information about the user like their id and loginName as well as details about the session itself.
Later on, if the user's password was checked successfully, ZITADEL will update the session and provide the date and time
when the password was verified.

## Verification

Since sessions just represent the current state, it's the responsibility of the client to check whether that state is
sufficient. This also gives you some opportunities, e.g. if you have different requirements for different use cases.

Let's jump into the example from above and assume you have a simple login UI, which just requires the user to verify
their [username and password](./username-password#create-session-with-user-check).

> If a user successfully authenticated using both, a session could look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user successfully authenticated using username and password, a session could look like:
```
